# Introduction

3dRNA/DNA is a fast and automated method for computationally predicting the 3D structures of RNA and DNA using their sequences and 2D structures as input (Zhang, Wang, and Xiao 2022, 2020; Wang et al. 2019; Zhao et al. 2012). 3dRNA/DNA uses a fragment and template assembly approach to build RNA and DNA 3D structures. According to the given 2D structure, 3dRNA/DNA first decomposes RNA or DNA into different types of smallest secondary elements (SSEs), including helix, hairpin loop, internal loop, bulge loop, pseudoknot loop, and multi-branch loop (also known as junction). Second, for each SSE, 3dRNA/DNA searches for an appropriate 3D template with the same 2D structure and highest sequence similarities from the 3D templates library, which is constructed using 3D structures of various SSEs in experimentally determined RNA and DNA 3D structures, or automatically construct a new template if no templates can be found in the library. Finally, 3dRNA/DNA assembles the 3D templates of all SSEs of the RNA or DNA into an integral 3D structure according to its 2D structure and then carries out a refinement procedure. Since usually one or more 3D templates can be found for each SSE, 3dRNA/DNA can give a set of structural models for an RNA or DNA. The assembled 3D structures can be further optimized with or without constraints of residue-residue interactions or distances by using a coarse-grained energy function (Wang et al. 2017). The predicted models of RNA can be ranked by using 3dRNAscore (Wang et al. 2015), which is an energy function for evaluating predicted 3D structures of RNA in order to pick out the proper ones. It is a knowledge-based statistical potential that combines distance-dependent energy and torsion-angle-dependent energy. The distance-dependent energy is based on distance between two non-bonded heavy atoms located at different residues in the RNA molecule. It is a mean force potential derived from Boltzmann distribution. The torsion-angle-dependent energy is based on the backbone torsion angles in RNA. It is also derived from Boltzmann statistical distribution. 3dRNAscore is included in 3dRNA/DNA but can be used independently but only locally. On the other hand, the predicted models of DNA are evaluated by a coarse-grained energy function extended from that for RNA (Wang et al. 2017).
3dRNA/DNA is extended from 3dRNA v2.0 to include circular RNA and DNA, and is available online (<a href=http://biophy.hust.edu.cn/new/3dRNA>http://biophy.hust.edu.cn/new/3dRNA</a>). In this unit, we will introduce two methods for using 3dRNA/DNA: Web browser (Basic Protocol) and local use (Alternate Protocol) for RNA and DNA 3D structure prediction.

## For more information

- Zhao, Y., Y. Huang, Z. Gong, Y. Wang, J. Man, and Y. Xiao. 2012. 'Automated and fast building of three-dimensional RNA structures', Sci Rep, 2: 734
- Wang, J., Y. Zhao, C. Zhu, and Y. Xiao. 2015. '3dRNAscore: a distance and torsion angle dependent evaluation function of 3D RNA structures', Nucleic Acids Research, 43: e63.
- Wang, J., K. K. Mao, Y. J. Zhao, C. Zeng, J. J. Xiang, Y. Zhang, and Y. Xiao. 2017. 'Optimization of RNA 3D structure prediction using evolutionary restraints of nucleotide-nucleotide interactions from direct coupling analysis', Nucleic Acids Research, 45: 6299-309.
- Wang, Jun, Jian Wang, Yanzhao Huang, and Yi Xiao. 2019. '3dRNA v2.0: An Updated Web Server for RNA 3D Structure Prediction', International Journal of Molecular Sciences, 20: 4116
- Zhang, Y., J. Wang, and Y. Xiao. 2020. '3dRNA: Building RNA 3D structure with improved template library', Computational and Structural Biotechnology Journal, 18: 2416-23.
- Zhang, Y., J. Wang, and Y. Xiao. 2022. '3dRNA: 3D Structure Prediction from Linear to Circular RNAs', Journal of Molecular Biology, 434: 167452.
- Zhang Y, Xiong Y, Xiao Y. 2022. '3dDNA: A Computational Method of Building DNA 3D Structures', Molecules, 27:5936.

